#summary Instructions how to measure boot time with prefetching.
#labels Instructions

= Introduction =
By measuring boot time in your setup you can help us improve boot prefetching to make boot even shorter.

Please install measurement script, perform the experiments and submit the results.


= Installation of measurement script =
This script measures boot time in repeatable manner. It should be run using your desktop environment autostart facility (not manually) in order to get consistent results.
*Your login manager (GDM, KDM or XDM) should be set to autologin your user in order to remove random time when you log in to the system*.

To install measuring script:
  # Download [http://prefetch.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/tools/record-boot-time/record-boot-time.sh script which logs boot time]
  # Copy script into your home directory
  # Change script permissions to mark it executable
  # Add script to your desktop environment autostart scripts (for specific instructions see below)

== Adding measurement script to KDE autostart ==
In order to add measurement script to KDE autostart:
  # Download [http://prefetch.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/tools/record-boot-time/autostart-test.desktop desktop file which starts script]
  # Copy this desktop file to folder ~/.kde/Autostart/

== Adding measurement script to Gnome autostart ==
To be done. If you know how to do it, please send e-mail 

= Experiments =
Now you can experiment to see what is the effect of prefetching kernel on your system.
Boot a few times (at least 5 times, preferably 10) with prefetching (first run is not accelerated as trace does not exist), then a the same number of times with standard kernel (with and without readahead installed) and compare the results.

Results are put in file ~/boot_time.log. Lines starting with `#` are comments which show run parameters. Each reboot starts with line `@restart`. Results are put in lines without #, boot time (in seconds) is the first number in this line.

You can repeat tests after modifying your boot sequence: add apps to Autostart, install some services started during boot (like Apache) or otherwise change your boot sequence.
Prefetching should automatically adapt to changed sequence after 1-2 reboots.

= Submit your results =
Please split ~/boot_time.log into separate files, so that run with one set of parameters is in separate file.

Please describe your environment (processor, RAM, partitions), attach results and send e-mail with results to prefetch-users@googlegroups.com with subject "Prefetch test results".