#summary Results of initial implementation of reordering files on disk.
#labels tests,results,reordering,layout,boot

== Test 1 ==
The purpose of this test is to check how reordering files on disk affects boot time.

=== Test description ===
Test machine: [TestMachineKL1 KL1]

Test environment: 
  * [KubuntuGutsyKL1 Kubuntu Gutsy KL1] with updates as of 2007-06-10, moved to other partition (hda13).
  * Standard desktop environment.
  * Custom compiled Gutsy kernel with automatic application prefetching implementation ([http://prefetch.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/kernel-patches/2.6.22/prefetch-core+boot+app-WIP.diff patch]).
  * dir_indexes turned off for root partition.
  * Prefetching was turned on.
  * 3-aggregation was not used, prefetch always used last trace (side effect of some other change).

Test method:
  * System boot time was measured by automatically running script when system boots (using ~/.kde/Autostart). The script recorded contents of /proc/uptime (first number is time since boot in seconds).
  * Two setups were tested: with reordering and without reordering

With reordering setup:
  * After each boot into tested system, system was manually booted from other partition and root partition of tested system was reordered based on split layouts produced by tested system using [http://prefetch.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/results/reordering/testmachine-kl1/test-1-manual/reorder-hda13.sh this script].
  * Layout was split into 500-lines chunks as there was no such big contiguous space to hold whole prefetched area.

Without reordering setup:
  * Image of tested system just before first reordering run was written back to partition and boot times were measure using automatic reboot script, as used in boot time tests.

Measurements repeatability:
  * Each combination of parameters was tested 10 times.
  * First run used boot traces from previous runs.

=== Test results ===
Note: During reordering tests, some of 500-lines chunks failed to be reordered due to lack of free area big enough to hold it.

||	Startup time	||	With reordering	||	Without reordering	||	Without reordering - With reordering	||
||	Average	||	46.89	||	52.68	||	5.79	||
||	Stddev	||	2.19	||	2.26	||	0.07	||
||	min	||	44	||	49.13	||	5.13	||
||	max	||	50.28	||	57.2	||	6.92	||
								
||	IO ticks	||	With reordering	||	Without reordering	||	Without reordering - With reordering	||
||	Average	||	17.38	||	21.84	||	4.47	||
||	Stddev	||	0.28	||	0.33	||	0.05	||
||	min	||	16.82	||	21.43	||	4.61	||
||	max	||	17.83	||	22.6	||	4.77	||


=== Conclusions ===