#summary Results of OpenOffice startup time measurements.
#labels tests,results

= Introduction =
This page contains summary of results of startup tests for OpenOffice.

= Effect of -norestore option =
Measurement method uses -norestore option. To see what is the effect of using this option, 2 series of tests were performed: 
  * One series with -norestore option and automatic killing of OpenOffice (KILL_OPENOFFICE=yes in measure_openoffice_start_time.sh script).
  * One series without -norestore option and closing OpenOffice manually (KILL_OPENOFFICE=no in measure_openoffice_start_time.sh script).

== Test 1 ==
=== Test description ===
Test machine: [TestMachineKL1 KL1]

Test environment: 
  * [KubuntuGutsyKL1 Kubuntu Gutsy KL1] with updates as of 2006-06-10.
  * Standard desktop environment.

Test preparation: 
  * one warmup run of measure_times.sh (i.e. warm startup)

Measurements repeatability:
  * each startup time measurement was repeated 10 times
  * each measurement immediately starting after previous one

=== Test results ===
||  || With -norestore || Without -norestore ||
|| Average time (s)  || 4.1165 || 4.0696 ||
|| Standard deviation|| 0.0389 || 0.0909 ||

Raw results are at: http://prefetch.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/results/openoffice/norestore-effect/testmachine-kl1/test-1/

=== Conclusion ===
Difference in startup time is in average about 0.05s so is not significant.

However, the test results show decreasing startup time with subsequent iteration, so the  difference might be related to the fact that test without -norestore option was performed later. Repeating test with more warmup is recommended.