#summary Running test version of kernel with boot prefetching
#labels Instructions

= Introduction =
First testing version of kernel with automatic boot prefetching and tracing is available.

This version is precompiled for Debian-based systems (tested on Ubuntu Gutsy, other distributions might not work). The kernel is standard Ubuntu kernel with these [http://prefetch.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/kernel-patches/2.6.22/submitted-2/ prefetch patches].

Standard disclaimer applies: this is *experimental* version, it might damage your system use at your own risk and only on systems where you have backups.

= Installation using PPA =

Currently the kernel available in PPA is Gutsy kernel. But it should work on other releases (e.g. Hardy).

*Note:* this instructions have not been tested by me as I do not have Gutsy/Hardy installation by hand, so please report any problems with them at https://answers.launchpad.net/prefetch/

To install it:
  * Add `deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/prefetch/ubuntu gutsy main` to /etc/apt/sources.list
  * Run `sudo apt-get update`
  * Run `sudo apt-get install prefetch linux-image-2.6.22-8-generic`


= Installation (manual) =

In order to use kernel with prefetching:
  * Download [http://prefetch.googlecode.com/files/linux-image-2.6.22.1-9pf.3_2.6.22-9pf.3_i386.deb kernel linux-image deb]
  * Install linux-image deb package
  * *Remove readahead package* using: `sudo apt-get remove --purge readahead` - please note that this will cause removing (x/k/edu)ubuntu-desktop package.
  * Download [http://prefetch.googlecode.com/files/prefetch_0.2.1_i386.deb userspace prefetch support deb] and install it using: `dpkg -i prefetch*.deb`

Now reboot and select "kernel 2.6.22.1-9pf.3" during boot. 

= Uninstallation =
In order to remove kernel with prefetching:
  # Reboot into standard (non-prefetching) kernel.
  # Remove prefetch userspace support files using `apt-get remove --purge prefetch`
  # Install readahead and (x/k/edu)ubuntu-desktop package.
  # Remove linux-image package with prefetching support (with "pf" in name).